# Reflective: Zines

#### Jade Fiorilla

I think I've already mentioned being part of Spectrum, the literary arts magazine on campus, but during fall Welcome Week we always host an event called "The Zine Scene" where we invite the community to come out and make a simple folded zine exactly like the ones we made in class. In other words, I'm quite familiar with cutting up magazines and creating a rhythm within those small pages. But, as I picked up my first magazine on Wednesday, it dawned on me that another medium which may be some kind of relative to the zine is the bullet journal. Since I first learned what a planner was, I've been obsessed with not only using them as an organizational tool, but also decorating them. It wasn't until my senior year of high school that I realized there was a name for what I was creating in the notebooks I bought at Marshalls. My first completed bullet journal encapsulates my senior year of high school through my first year of college. Looking back at the red, graph paper journal, I am so grateful, like Pagan, that I have those memories captured. And not only are their magazine clippings and polaroid pictures and recipets taped in, but they are arranged alongside my daily to-do lists and my doodles; it's a true showing of my personality and my sense of design that is completely about myself, completely for myself. As Pagan writes about zine making, bullet journaling provides me with the same "sheer delight of creating something" that isn't meant to be perfect. 

With that being said, I treat my bullet journals, and my zines, as a tool to further express my inner self. Unlike Pagan, I'm never tempted to project "my dream life" onto these creations. Similarly, I'm not interested in xeroxing pages of my bullet journal and giving them to my friends, even my close friends. For me, they are meant to be visually pleasing, yes, but also a space for personal reflection. Now and then growing up, I wanted to create a blog or a newsletter, with the goal of becoming an influencer of sorts. Plenty of times when I was younger, I'd craft a one-page newsletter, include fun facts about myself, print a few copies, and stick them in my neighbors' mailboxes. This was enjoyable, but I never made second issues. 

The zines I make at Spectrum's "Zine Scene" are also always more ethereal than any of Pagan's examples. I suppose I'm beginning to feel like there are two subtypes within the zine medium: one is the writer's shout into the wind or the voice of the underground (text-heavy), while the other is like an informal artbook. I suppose I first came to zines from a collage, quirky, physically present understanding, so I am more prone to thinking about zines as art objects rather than the medium they allude to, magazines. In fact, the more I think about the xeroxed zine, the more indifferent I become. I love the texture and nuance of hand made items, and so the notion of photocopying an original and handing those out instead feels phony. It's like a protective screen on an smartphone; sure it's clear and doesn't distort images, but it is still a barrier between the user and the tool. 