# Reflective: Print II

#### Jade Fiorilla

I think one of the most interesting questions we discussed in class this week stemmed from what the use of the Bushwick typface can/should be given its origin story. From Heller's interview with Pablo Medina, Bushwick's creator, Medina doesn't seem overly concerned about how the typeface gets utilized. He does, however, comment on the influence the immigrant population in the neighborhood had on his design saying, "It's important to underscore how vital the Latino community is in the visual landscape of Bushwick." To me, it sounds as though this font is meant to represent the underlying, often overlooked, roots of the city, which then begs the question, should this connotation be taken into consideration before application of the typeface? After some thought, I don't think the answer is black and white. 

Expanding on the comments I made in class, type is first and foremost a tool. I say this confidently because it evolved for a distinct function: to share and preserve information in a manner more readily than script. The invention of different typefaces also, to an extent, came out of market needs rather than artistry. Chunky types grab attention, while skinny ones allow more to be printed on a single page. On the flipside, I love the idea of a typeface developed from the dimension of the Vitruvian Man. This representation of culture is not too disimilar from the intention behind Bushwick. Both choose to embelish the pure functionality of type, but they also do not stand in the way of its purpose. If a font is unreadable, then can it really be called a font? Does it not then become just an artistic comment? 

There is a line between the creator and the user which must be respected. For anything to have value or aesthetics, there must be intention built into its design. Thus, if the intention is to capture the current of immigrant culture, then the results will be that much more refined because of the raw inspiration. After the idea has been captured, however, the artist must let the work speak for itself. And in the context of typeface, this means letting the font be used without any attachment to the original inspiration. Should others from the community lift up Bushwick and take it as an element of the neighborhood's identity, then the typeface would have a connotation. If someone in LA finds Bushwick and uses it to brand their sneakers, then it will take on a totally different connotation. I believe it's an unfair practice for an artist to limit the application of their creative device. Once meaning has transfered to the public and potentially made a mark in history, then it may become its own story.