# Reflective: E-lit II
#### Jade Fiorilla

To preface this week's reflection, since I've been working on my book report, my understanding of the book as a medium has changed drastically. Even just between Wednesday midday, when we were coding our TwitterBots, to Thursday night, as I finished my essay, the word "book" contains so many more possibilites. In fact, I now consider most TwitterBots to perhaps not be books themselves, but absolutely propel us to create books—my book report will explore this train of thought to a greater extent than I will here. I suppose this epiphany of mine comes at a convenient time, as we continue to experiment with less traditional forms of literature. 

One common thread between the reading and class discussion that I'd like to expand upon is the concern of accessibility and electronic content. In the introduction to *First Screening*, "ensuring functional access" is mentioned as a major concern; continuing technological leaps threaten to effectively erase the kinetic poetry as what once was the latest and greatest storage device becomes obsolete. This is a problem print also experieces, but at a much slower pace. Yes, ancient texts can fade and weather, but before they do we typically have the opportunity to copy them. The main difference here is that print utilizes a language that is not destined to change. Electronic literature, however, is written using a language that is not nearly as fundamental, and is thus bound to change. Does this element of vulnerability matter when we try to define the book? Are books supposed to be built from reliable pieces, or, like *Agrippa*, is it okay that they disappear? 

In class, to view certain TwitterBots operating as they were designed to, we had to look at older tweets. This was presumably because some of the code responsible for making the bot work was no longer supported due to Twitter updates. In this third generation type of electronic literature, if the creator does not manage their creations, then they are liable to fail. It's no one else's responsiblity, yet if *First Screening* is a test case, then it may be communal effort that will preserve digital work. What a romatic notion: the book is evolving into a tool that not only stores information, but forces us to interact with each other and care about one another. Maybe it is a nod to historical times when books were meant to be read aloud to a group of people, or maybe it is a nod to globalization. Either way, it makes one realize that the book only exists because we care for it. 