# Reflective: Fabrication I

#### Jade Fiorilla

To elaborate on a point I made in class, in response to a question Elaina brought up during discussion, I think it's worth considering our use of the word "printing" when it comes to the fabrication of 3D work. For all intents and purposes, "printing" relates to ink of some sort being spread across a flat, two dimensional surface. In any other situation, if something extends into the third dimension, we use terms such as "building" or "constructing" or "assembling". As trivial as it may seem, continuing to use the word "printing" in reference to the production of 3D creations matters, as the words we chose influence us more than we give them credit. By associating new technology like 3D printers with the term "printing" they automatically must respond to the history of books, newspapers, or other print material. 

And why shouldn't these three dimensional creations exist on their own scale? Why do we see them as a progression from printing techniques? Another realm of fabrication approaching the same capacity to venture into the medium of books is electronic experimentation using microcontrollers. The chapter we read from *A New Companion to Digital Humanities* talked about the Arduino microcontroller, which I've actually worked with as part of an engineering class I took in high school. Coding is a large part of making the Arduino system interactive; "coding" is a fine example of a word that, while relating to language and writing, is not bound to all the baggage that the word "printing" brings with it. Because of this, we are able to see both the physical circuitry and the user interface as a new world to explore and modify. 3D printing, as it stands now, I find less exciting—it's like it begs to compete with 2D printing methods, which are honestly incomparable.

Back in class, one of the questions I raised to my small group was what's in store for the future of 3D printing. After some debate, including some quick googling of 3D printed organs and chocolate, we came to the observation that 3D printing could very well establish its own medium. If the book is humanity's opitmal form for storing and comprehending two dimensional information, than what will be the equal counterpart for three dimensional information? All it would take is one person to figure out how to create a medium that takes advantage of the immediacy of 3D printing. Returning to Elaina's question, however, should this invention really carry with it the term "printing"? Can such an innovation even take place if those who come to 3D printing come to it considering the preexisting rules associated with 2D printing? 