# Reflective: Print I

#### Jade Fiorilla

This week we experienced setting type for the first time; what a labor of love! Because there is so much customization possible (i.e. font, line height, alignment) I realized quickly that it is best to go into the project with a set design plan in mind. For our postcard, Levi and I worked together. We used varying thicknesses of leading between lines without much consideration. It was really out of convenience, using the leading we had been randomly given. We also used uppercase and lowercase letters interchangably, with slightly more intention. However, I can only imagine what care must go into setting a specific text without error. To a novice, it would be incredibly time consuming. In fact, this experience definitely gave weight to *The Atlantic* article we read that discussed the en space. While I thought it seemed a bit overdramatic for the author to declare "spaces were directly responsible for the development of silent reading," after physically piecing in the spacing between words and at the end of lines I understand their point. Each time we had to judge how to complete a line so that it was tightly composed, it actually felt like we were laying down a meaningful silent space. Although I believe the author's intention with the quote was historical, how one used to have to read aloud in order to distinguish words, now I think the quote also speaks to the labor involved in setting type, in setting spaces. 

This experience also lent me new insight in regards to the possible connection between letterpress and future innovation. To preface, my generation's relationship with technology is particular as we developed alongside now-ubiquitous laptops and smartphones and tablets. When I was younger, I used to play with my dad's PalmPilot, then his blackberry, and then the family Dell desktop. Eventually I got my own iPod shuffle, then an iPhone, and then a MacBook. All the while, however, our primary influence, our parents, talked about the corporate fear of the year 2000, as everyone fretted computer systems would not be able to handle the change from the twentieth to the twenty-firt century. My mom has also shared with me her college essays written on a typewriter with no simple delete key (so unfathomable to me now). On many occasions, she also emphasizes how there was no internet to do research in her dorm room—you had to go to the library and pull book after book from the stacks (and no control-F either). In my case, my parents were both also invested in film photography, a technique that is, strictly speaking, unecessary with the advent of palm-sized priting devices you can buy at Urban Outfitters. 

The bottomline is, as much as I love my old typewriter I bought at a local antique store, I use it sparingly. My laptop is easy, adaptable, fast. Actually similar to the letterpress, it can be depended upon to produce the same results every time I go to use it. To continue the analogy, when I write on my typewriter, if I insert the paper slightly crooked, by the time I finish the page, I'm writing at a thirty degree angle. Setting type was enjoyable, and I appreciate its "rebirth" in modern times, yet opposed to *The Economist* article and more in line with the *Wired* article, my generation overall wants things to continue to become more convenient, more flexible, and less time-consuming. I think we will be a generation of hobbyists, but when it comes to day-to-day life, no matter the possibilites of letterpress combining with 3D printing or other technologies, we will want to move forward without looking at the past for guidance, probably to our own detriment. It's like iPhones: we can barely pay off the iPhone 14 before the 15 is released. 