# Reflective: Fabrication II

#### Jade Fiorilla

As I've mentioned in prior reflections, after completing my Book Report I approach questions about what is and isn't a book much differently. For instance, when Prof. Cordell asked us to consider the book from an interdisciplinary point of view, I had a hard time coming up with an observation that respected my new understanding of the book. Because, until proven otherwise, I see the book as a completely intangible creation. As will be made clear during my presentation next week, I think we have things like literature and art and textbooks and diagrams, but their existence is not bookish. A book is the tool we the reader creates in order to sort, understand, and remember information. As soon as we abosrb the material, we add our own experiences and knowledge to their contents, and create a book, a colalborative narrative of sorts. In this light, there are no barriers between incorporating circuitry or digital components. The means of conveying the information is all-inclusive; a book mannifests itself only if we care enough to piece it into our own memory.

With that being said, another topic discussed briefly in class was the singularity of 3D fabrications. I relate this to the notion brought up in the essay *Thinking as Handwork*, that with the dawn of "3D-rematerialization" creators are stopping at the prototype, that there is less pressure to cement inventions as new technology meant to persist. This idea feels very reminiscent of open source projects; the joy isn't in ownership necessarily, but in creating and sharing and improving. When culture classifies new generations as overly self-centered, using the selfie as an example of such characterization, it should also be highlighted that with the internet, we are more aware of those around us than ever before. And while prototypes don't have a widespread effect, they are stepping stones toward innovations. Hidden within the three teapot example given in the reading is the rule of thumb all artists are taught at one point: in order to break the rules, the rules must first be known. Again, prototypes are the opportunity to practice, experiment, and share inspiration. 

Working with the simple circuits in class was refreshing—even in physics classes it's lectures and notes and structured labs. It was immediately gratifying to light the colorful LEDs through trial and error without repercussions when sometimes "failing" to do so. This kind of fabrication can be frustrating, but it gives the mind a creative challenge. In an effort to create a book, the author can, and possibly should, incorporate such intricate elements into their product. These elements may not only add to a story being told, but they also expose the reader to behind-the-scenes processes often overlooked nowadays. As all technology becomes microscopic, and labor is gradually replaced by automation, we risk forgetting the work that went into creating so many material objects. The physcial components that stimulate the creation of a book offer one flexible medium to impress upon their audience the "invisible" technology all around us. 