# Reflective: What is a Book?

#### Jade Fiorilla

A critical point of discussion this week was differentiating between a work and a text. As a class, we examined geographical textbooks. While each text was unique, incorporating different fold-out elements, types of paper, and handwritten notes, the purpose of the work, written by the same author, was to educate an audience about the world. This distinction begs the question that I believe must be answered first before considering what else a book may be: who does the book belongs to? I have always thought that books are solely a creation of the author, but the author is not often responsible for chosing the type of paper their words are printed on. They don't have a say in which pages have coffee stains or corner creases either. Thus, it seems like the work, the ideas and content, are the only part of a book that belong to the writer. The text is a product of both the scribe/printer (and nowadays the publishing house) and the reader. Knowing the stakeholders helps us understand a book's responsibility as well as its charm. 

Another foundational concept emphasized in *The Book* was seeing the medium as a utility, a technology. This is part of a book's responsibility. It is an archive, a performance, and a source of information, both objective and subjective. Language is a tool and books are its shape. Historically, they were expensive, not unlike the digital gadgets released today. They provide readers with a service, and continue to be trusted more than any other medium when it comes to factual content. The codex is sturdy; it carries an air of finality that websites can't quite compete with. Originally, when there wasn't a mass market for books, they were only economically viable when they were created for some strict reason. Whether that reason was tied to the meaningful words or the convenient shape, I think utility is key when defining the book. 

Finally, going to the Northeastern archives provided plenty of food for thought in regards to the charm of books. One point touched upon in that experience as well as in *The Book* was the personalization of the binding. When I first realized that owners, not authors or craftsmen, would bind their book collections to all look the same, I was astonished. I find this kind of customization enchanting for some reason. Perhaps it has to do with the sudden intimacy that can develop between a book and its owner, when the owner creates a form tailored for themselves. This, in combination with the aforementioned finality of seeing something in person, in print, gives the book a warm aura. It's as though we register that the words once belonged to a writer, the pages a printer, but now it all belongs to us, indefinitely. We can take a pen to the pages, make them ours, and know that those marks cannot be easily lifted. Instead, some may survive until they arrive at an archive and are viewed by other students and historians. Through time, books have established this connotion of being personable. 