# Reflective: E-lit I

#### Jade Fiorilla	

While I was unable to attend our Wednesday class this week and experiment with the program used to create Netflix's *Bandersnatch*, I did take the time to watch the choose-your-own-adventure movie. 

In many ways, film and print are opposites. In movies, every glance, every step, and every word spoken is immediate and unchanging. In books, there is room for interpretation. When the author writes "Jane ran down the street," the reader is in charge of the speed and the gait of Jane running. When watching a film, however, the audience is passive as they are fed all the details of the story or information being conveyed. In *Bandersnatch*, I found the ten second decision timer very aggrivating and unecessary. In my opinion, a book is something that exists outside of our understanding of time, yet at every decision point, as the skinny white bar showed time slipping away, I felt very much in my reality rather than the narrative's reality. The act of moving the cursor left or right to select my choice also paled in comparison to flipping physical pages; as a child, nothing felt more wrong and thrilling than to skip ahead and start reading the "end" of a book. 

It also made me question the difference between audience engagement and audience interaction. I believe we can all be thoroughly engaged in a movie; I love when a film feels like it's over in thirty minutes, but is actually three hours long. But is this type of engagement enough to conisder a movie a book? If audience interaction is considered the standard for classifing something as a book, then your typical movie would not be included. Videogames, however, would be. As would reading print or digital text, since there is significant decision making involved in transforming symbolic letters into information or imagery. When presented with Jon Bois's *What Football Will Look Like in the Future*, just the act of scrolling to read makes it feel if not intimate, than definitely interactive. Yet I think an element of convenience is lost, and  books were invented to be convenient. As was mentioned in class, *What Football Will Look Like in the Future* cannot be read on a mobile device. It requires a decent internet connection as well. 

Perhaps to a fault, I believe any novel developments to the book as a medium ought to respect the reasons for its conception. This reason can evolve, as it has from recording data to influencing audiences, but it'll be interesting to see if a true electronic book is ever created, or if the closest we get is electronic literature. 