# Reading Prep: Fabrication II - Paper Circuits

#### Jade Fiorilla

## Questions or Observations

1. How about "3D-rematerialization" (taken from *Thinking is Handwork*) as a response to my qualms with the incorporating the word "printing" into 3D technologies? It refers to a material becoming something new, to creation occuring from something else. 
2. Also from *Thinking is Handwork*, considering 3D printing as an up and coming means to control/direct/establish culture is intriguing, especially in regards to whose hands are doing the modeling, and whose agenda is it following. This is the reflective thinking humanity failed to pursue historically; "critical making" is thus so important when integrating new technology into societal capsules such as museums or libraries or education venues, so that we do not repeat past mistakes. 
3. I really want to question the legitimacy of "deformance" as utilized in one of the *Bibliocircuitry and the Design of the Alien Everday* projects. Taking *The Fall of the House of Usher* and rearranging its paragraphs to read in reverse order from end to beginning feels like an art form based on rules, rather than an art form created. I understand that manipulating the text as such can lead to new insights, however any such insights are merely coincidental, no? I suppose once the book is published, it is not for the writer to decide how the audience uses it, yet such "deforamnce" strikes me as ungrateful, perhaps, or so unrelated to the original work that it's insulting or unfair. Even if the end project makes a poignant comment about Poe's original short story, because that was not the primary objective of the project, it feels almost fake or illegitimate. (Perhaps I am too critical here?)