# Reading Prep: E-lit I

#### Jade Fiorilla

## Questions or Observations

1. Is it possible for a future generation to think the codex as obsolete a form as we think the cuneiform tablet is? Or is it true that physical books will continue to at least exist alongside new digital mediums? I wonder if the convenient physicalites of codices discussed in Jabr's article would spur someone from this possible future generation to reinvent the bound book—that would be a sign that while we are free to continue to innovate, the codex should be acknowledged as a worthy form for storing information. I suppose my point is that while a physical book has sentimental or charming characteristics, it is also practical and efficient. You can't stick a thumb in the page of an e-book to, with a flick of the wrist, look back at a passage. 
2. As I read the *Scientific American* piece, and it mentioned using electronic scrolling in a new context, rather than comparing it to page turning, I thought of how entertaining comics or illustrations might be in such an endless layout. It was coincidental, then, when I looked at Bois's work. While I think the calendar motif couldn've been played stronger by allowing the reader to turn a physical page (or even a rip off a page), I enjoyed the multi-media unveiling at the latter end of the chapter. The scrolling made the messages feel immediate and famliar, like I was on my phone reading a growing text thread. This makes me think that electronic literature must build something unique to its medium, rather than try to win over print codex readers. 
3. Jabr also mentions digital music as it relates to digital reading, which I think is a brilliant connection. Records and mixed tapes are back because they are vintage to a generation that feels, at times, too shiny for their own good. In our everyday lives, however, it's digital music that follows us everywhere. What if there was a reading-equivalent to Spotify? Could publishers create Spotify-like subscription services to books? Would this increase the popularity of reading? What would happen to the form of the book? What if we could then share books on our Instagram stories as easily as we share songs? 