# Reading Prep: Book Alterities

#### Jade Fiorilla

## Questions or Observations

1. Carrión's commentary has me convinced that if I were ever to become an English teacher, I'd try my hardest to refer to the works we read as texts, never books. It's startling to me that only now in this class am I understanding that books are simply a medium, that they are not what a writer produces. As suffocating as definitions can be, the more I'm exposed to conversations about text vs. book, content vs. medium, the more I value the distinciton; if we want culture to evolve and innovate, we need to be clear about where we currently stand. If we want to create a "Future Book" then we need to assess the pre-existing fundamental elements before we reinvent them.
2. I appreciated Carrión's opinion that "in art you can love nobody" because I think it's a brilliant way to express how art exists independent of the creator. The artist may breathe life, but they cannot control their work once it is finished (re:Frankenstein). It gives control back to the public—is our tendency to elevate names due to our pridefulness? Our ambition? Our need for concrete answers? The second tier of understanding why we care about artists (or singers or authors) is the concept of ownership, but I believe that ownership is fueled by either pride or maybe even our sense of justice. It would be an interesting world if all art was public, if creators were never cited; would art then become wholly cultural? Would we as a people be more united, more grateful, happier?
3. Bök's goal of creating "living" poetry is interesting at face value. It makes sense to want to transform dull black ink on white paper into something dynamic, sentient, able to exist biologically alongside ourselves. Relating this to how Schuster interpreted *The Xenotext: Book 1*, I am conflicted about the human-centric manipulation of science we as humans are subordinate to as well. He writes, "Reading Bök’s many DNA poems, we realize that all our bodies are made from highly restricted vocabularies." These "vocabularies" however are both named and explained by human language that, outside of our population, have no significance. Do our bodies realize they are made up of sequences of A, G, T, and C/U? Probably not. Thus, it's as though Bök is trying to impress a human legacy upon natural science in a manner akin to a child playing at doctor. Perhaps the underlying question I am pointing to is whether scientific merit or cultural merit holds a higher priority, which is an age old discussion...