# Reading Prep: Binding

#### Jade Fiorilla

## Questions or Observations

1. Baxter "regarded uncut and sealed books as tommy-rot" and presumably left the Bodleian Club feeling quite proud of his joke. What a prime example of a literary snob! I question where this contention comes from; does it stem from the hard work of studying text versus the seemingly easy work of apprecaiting beauty? While I admit to being somewhat of a poetry snob, I'm also keen on poetry that just sounds good (my equivalent to caring only about the appearance of a book). I honestly believe that once something is created, everyone's opinions are equal on the matter, so long as they are able to articulate their reasoning with genuine passion.
2. I enjoyed both Petit's article and Dantas's article especially, because they included examples of using letterpress to convey image-centric ideas. Using found objects to translate nature in the context of the mechanical letterpress is exciting. As is creating a fluid graphic novel using a very rigid, unforgiving method like letterpress. I'm interested to understand how I could utilize letterpress and include more forms than just metal type, how I could utliize letterpress to create dynamic shapes and images. (Perhaps tangentially, I also think that because pasting found objects on the page is additive, while letterpress can leave depressions on the page and feel subtractive, Petit's article holds that much more of an interesting argument—something I now want to play with in my book project)
3. The Driscoll and Squires paper felt young, experimental, and prodding. I believe their call to understand books in the context of new experiences is interesting, yet also like they were trying perhaps too hard to come to a decisive point. I like that they followed the connection between books and ferries, discovering their own assumptions about books along the way, however it begs the question: isn't there plausible connections between any two things in the world? Why are books unique in this sense? Is it because they themselves are a vessel? A vessel often overlooked and left stagnant? 